Rancho Palos Verdes, California (CNN) -- Apple CEO Tim Cook would someday like to see an Apple product manufactured in the United States, he told attendees of a technology gathering Tuesday. 
I want there to be, Cook said when asked whether an iPhone or iPad could be made be domestically. 
Cook, noted, however, that a few components of Apple's devices are made in the United States, such as the glass for iPhone screens. 
But he said the nation's infrastructure for large-scale manufacturing does not currently exist. 
Apple has been the subject of criticism for its plants in China, principally operated by technology manufacturer Foxconn. 
Low wages and long working hours are among the abuses detailed at many of its plants, a culture the company says it has been working to change. 
Cook made his comments in front of a crowd of technology executives and journalists attending the annual All Things Digital conference, which features prominent CEOs taking questions from moderators Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher, who started the conference and successful tech blog bearing the same name. 
Cook spent a considerable amount of time talking about his predecessor, Steve Jobs, who died last year from pancreatic cancer. 
Steve was a genius and visionary, he told the audience when talking about his old boss. 
I never felt the weight of trying to be Steve. 
It's not my goal in life. 
I am who I am and I'm focused on that, he said. 
He recounted a conversation he had with Jobs during the final days of his life. 
He said that Jobs did not want employees constantly asking, "What would Steve do? Just do what's right, he said Jobs told him". 
So, I'm doing that. 
Attention veered towards a much-anticipated Apple television which the company is rumored to be making. 
While Cook wouldn't say whether the company is developing a television, he called TV an area of "intense interest" for the company, saying he believes that most people are not really pleased with their overall television experience. 
As is typical for Apple, Cook divulged no specifics about potential new products, saying only that "We have some incredible things coming out. 
Cook was less cautious when talking about other Apple technologies, such as Siri, the voice recognition application on the newest iPhone. 
Siri has been the target of complaints for its spotty service at times. 
I think you're going to be pleased with where we're taking Siri, he said. 
We're doubling down on it. 
As for future company goals, Cook said the company is not looking to achieve a certain amount of revenue or hit a particular stock price. 
I just want to build great products, he said. 
If we do that, the other things will follow.